Read-through of traditional vaccines (#1155)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/23.vaccines-novel.md

**Applications to COVID-19:**
Several plasmid-vectored DNA vaccines have been developed against COVID-19 (Table @tbl:approved_DNA).
In fact, the ZyCoV-D vaccines developed by India's Zydus Cadila is the first plasmid-vectored DNA to receive approval [@doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.10.056; @doi:10.1038/d41586-021-02385-x].

> <!--It would be great to go into ZyCoV-D since it made it to approval, but we originally put our effort into covering INO-4800. Consider updating post-submission?-->

Reviewer: Might be worth it post submission. Have it ready to include in the next steps.

Indeed, only Sotrovimab (Vir Biotechnology/GSK) and Tixagevimab (AstraZeneca) to a much lesser extent could effectively neutralize the omicron variant out of 7 tested monoclonal antibodies [@doi:10.1101/2021.12.14.21267772], which has been verified by others [@doi:10.1101/2021.12.12.472269].
The antigenic shift of the Omicron variant does raise concerns for future VOC and what effects they may have on future vaccines and therapeutics.
-->

The WHO continues to monitor the emergence of variants and their impact on vaccine efficacy [@url:https://www.who.int/news-room/feature-stories/detail/the-effects-of-virus-variants-on-covid-19-vaccines].
Previous research in the computational prediction of the efficacy of vaccines targeting the influenza A virus might complement efforts to monitor these types of viral outbreaks [@doi:10.1093/cid/ciy323].
To adapt, booster shots are now recommended in many places, and vaccines in the near future will likely account for multiple variants and strains of SARS-CoV-2 [@doi:10.1038/s41591-021-01230-y].

### Booster Doses

> Due to waning immunity and viral evolution, boosters have emerged as an important strategy in retaining the benefits of vaccination over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to waning neutralizing anitbodies and viral evolution, boosters have emerged as an important strategy in retaining the benefits of vaccination over time.
```

Reviewer: The immunity thing is debatable, what we really are talking about neutralizing antibodies as a measure of immunity. Both that negates the possible immune protection offered by other cells.

Homologous booster doses have been investigated for most vaccines.
For example, over 14,000 adults were administered a booster (second) dose of the Janssen Ad26.COV2.S vaccine [@doi:10.1101/2022.01.28.22270043].
The booster dose was highly efficacious, with severe COVID-19 and hospitalization prevented almost completely in the vaccinated group.
A booster dose was also found to improve immune response for Sputnik V vaccinees [@doi:10.1101/2021.12.17.21267976].
For the AstraZeneca vaccine, a different approach was taken.
In the interest of distributing first doses as widely as possible, the effects of extending the time between the first and second doses was evaluated and  [@doi:10/hx9c].

> In countries such as Israel, a fourth dose of mRNA vaccines have been introduced in response to the Omicron variant and an initial study in healthcare workers show that the additional immunization is safe and immunogenic with antibody titers restored to peak-third dose titers.

Reviewer: lower O in omicron? I'm not sure, just saw you changed others in the MS for beta etc.

> In countries such as Israel, a fourth dose of mRNA vaccines have been introduced in response to the Omicron variant and an initial study in healthcare workers show that the additional immunization is safe and immunogenic with antibody titers restored to peak-third dose titers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In countries such as Israel, a fourth dose of mRNA vaccines have been introduced in response to the omicron variant and an initial study in healthcare workers show that the additional immunization is safe and immunogenic with antibody titers restored to peak-third dose titers.
```
